# Welcome!
This [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md) vault is designed to be a test suite for Obsidian's [Shell commands](https://github.com/Taitava/obsidian-shellcommands) community plugin. It is assumed that you are already familiar with both Obsidian and the Shell commands plugin, and have used for some time already.

This test suite serves as a standardised tool to make sure that each Shell commands version release is tested in a detailed process, and that the test results are stored in report files for possible later reference. test reports might be needed for example in bug investigations in order to see if the testing process should be improved.

This Obsidian vault is designed to be stored in a [Git](https://git-scm.com) repository, and all settings (except `appearance.json`) are stored in Git. The vault is designed to work with a minimal set of core plugins, which are enabled by default. Core plugins that are not needed, are disabled to keep the UI clean. Other community plugins are not needed to be installed, but you need to install *Shell commands* community plugin. If a community plugin would bring great advantages to this test suite, then I might consider requiring it to be installed, but this vault should still adhere to easy installation process.

This note offers short guidance on how to get started with testing. I will first introduce you the folder structure of this vault (it aims to be simple), and then point you towards the actual testing process and deeper instructions.

# Currently only supported on Windows and Linux
The test suite will be first developed to work on Windows and Linux flawlessly, and then I'll figure out how to make a Mac version of the test suite.

# Uses CMD.EXE, PowerShell, Bash and Zsh
**On Windows**: Most commands are executed using [PowerShell Core](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell), but also [PowerShell 5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PowerShell) and [CMD.EXE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cmd.exe) are used for some commands. Please have all of these installed if you are testing on Windows!

**On Linux and Macintosh**: Most commands are executed using [Bash](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bash), but also [Zsh (Z shell)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Z_shell) and [Dash](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Almquist_shell#dash) are used for some commands. It would be nice if you have these installed if you are testing on Linux or Mac, but if not, you can skip the particular tests that require these. Only Bash is mandatory.

# Reports you make and submit will be public
This is a public repository and so your report will be publicly available in the internet, too, if you have decided to make one. If you do not want your report to be published, please contact me, and we can agree what details can be published, or agree to only publish the version informations: Operating system name and version, Obsidian version, and Shell commands version, without other information. These three version details are the minimun that are needed in order that it's possible to indicate that the plugin has been tested on a specific operating system.

# Folder/file structure
- **Performed tests**: This folder will contain all test report files that you or anyone else creates. Each test run creates just one report file. Part of the test report file's content is created by *FINISH TEST* shell command.
- **Sandbox**: The test suite creates/edits files in this folder. When a test run is to be started, this folder should have only one file: *TestResults.md*, which should be empty. When the test run finishes, the folder should again only have this one, empty file, nothing else.
- **Templates**: Contains **Test report.template.md** file, which offers a strong structure for all new test report files. Do not touch this file manually! When you are about to create a new test report, use the *Open today's daily note* command/button in the left side panel! It will copy the file and setup the file name and some other things correctly for you.
- **Test guides**: Contains a bit more documentation about certain tests, but currently does not have as much information as could be beneficial to have. You don't need to read the content of this folder at the beginning. More important is to generate your test report file and read instructions there. The report file will also contain links to *Test guides* in case you like to read more about a specific test.

# Get running!
1. **Install *Shell commands* if it's not yet installed**: Hit *Ctrl/Cmd + ,* to open up settings.Go to *Community plugins* and click *Browse* button. Type *Shell commands* to the search field. Select a plugin that has name *Shell commands* and that is created by *Jarkko Linnanvirta*. Click *Install* and **remember** to click *Enable* after the installation is completed. You can now close the settings window.
2. (Optional) **Install *Red graphite* theme** from community themes if you want: Hit *Ctrl/Cmd + ,* to open up settings. Go to *Appearance*, seek for *Community themes* and click *Browse*. Type *Red graphite* (or just *red*) to the search field and click *Use* under the theme. I recommend you to set *Base theme* to *Light*. Appearance settings are not stored in Git version control, so you can customise them freely, and you can use another theme, too.
3. **Open a new daily note**: Click the *Open today's daily note* icon in the left side bar (or hit `Ctrl`/`Cmd` + `N` hotkey, it's assigned to the daily note function). If you are unsure whether you have already created a daily note, you can click the same icon again, it won't create a new file if there already exists a file for today. It will just bring up the file for you. And just to clarify, a *daily note* in the context of this test suite is the same thing as a *test report file*.
4. **Perform the test actions**: Follow the instructions in your test report file.
    - Each *test item* is marked with a checkbox. When you have completed the test item's instruction, click the checkbox to mark it done. Tip: use preview mode to be able to click the checkbox - if you are in edit mode, you need to fill the `[ ]` box with an *x*: `[x]`.
    - If the plugin does something unexpected, something does not work, or you have questions, edit the report file and add your own notes/questions using `==` formatting, e.g. `==I'm not sure if this shell command executed correctly==` . It will stand out well in the preview mode: ==I'm not sure if this shell command executed correctly==. Put your comment near the test item that it refers to.
    - While working on test items, keep an eye on the [[Sandbox/TestResults]] file. This test suite's shell commands will output their results to that file one at a time, and you need to check if the results look ok or if they have some errors in them. If you are uncertain of a result, you can insert ==a comment/question== into the [[TestResults]] file too, and your comment will eventually become a part of the test report in the finishing phase.
5. **Execute *FINISH TEST* command**: It will move all content from [[Sandbox/TestResults]] to the end of your test report file. This content might look messy and you might have done things in a different order than previous testers. It's fine, the content does not have to look exatly same as in other people's test reports. Mark the checkbox that indicates that you have executed the *FINISH TEST* command. Executing the command accidentally twice should not do any harm.
6. **Submit your test report file**: The best way to submit is by committing it with Git. **Do not commit possible changes to any other files**, only commit your report file, nothing more, nothing less! It's too easy to accidentally commit e.g. changed settings or accidental edits to these documentation files. If you do not know how to use git, send your report by opening up a [new Discussion in the Shell commands repository](https://github.com/Taitava/obsidian-shellcommands/discussions).