# 1. Preview and execute shell commands
This vault contains shell command definitions for all {{variables}}. Each shell command should be previewed in command palette (to see that the variable values work ok) and then executed.

All shell commands that this vault contains are designed so that they can be executed in whatever order (commands are not dependent on each other), and they do not perform anything harmful, like edit any files outside the *Sandbox* folder. The *working directory* is set to be *Sandbox*, although it does not prevent accidentally editing files outside of *Sandbox*. There is also a *FINISH TEST* command that resets *Sandbox* to an initial state, so that each test round can start from scratch. This makes an exception to the above rule that commands should only edit files in *Sandbox*: *FINISH TEST* appends content to files in *Performed tests* folder.

**Note that *Preview variables in command palette* setting must be turned on when testing commands.**

## Shell commands that require preactions
Certain shell commands requires preliminary actions to do before thay can be executed.
###  Clipboard to file
You need to copy something to the clipboard. Copy for example the following: TESTCLIPBOARD

### Selection to file
You need to be in editor mode and select something. Select for example the following: TESTSELECTION

As {{selection}} currently works in editor mode only, and it's a known issue, you do not need to comment about {{selection}} not working in preview mode, and you can just check the checkbox regardless of this problem.

## Commands that do not need to be tested
There are a couple of [Git](https://git-scm.com) commands that I use for maintaining this test suite/documentation. There commands are dependent on Git, so if you don't have Git installed on your machine, you can run them. I do not expect you to install Git just to be able to test these two commands. Also these commands are present only in the Windows version of this test suite.

These shell commands do not need to be tested:
- Git GUI: Opens a graphical Git client on Windows.
- Git Bash: Opens a Linux like command line terminal window that can be used to execute Git commands on Windows.